---
title: "Adapting a Faceted Search Task Model for the Development of a Domain-Specific Council Information Search Engine"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2022-egov
excerpt: 'Characterising the work tasks and search tasks of council members to develop domain-specific search functionality'
date: 2022-07-06
venue: 'EGOV 2022'
slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/egov-slides.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/egov-paper.pdf'
citation: 'Schoegje, T., de Vries, A., & Pieters, T. (2022, August). Adapting a Faceted Search Task Model for the Development of a Domain-Specific Council Information Search Engine. In International Conference on Electronic Government (pp. 402-418). Cham: Springer International Publishing.'
---
Domain specialists such as council members may benefit from specialised search functionality, but it is unclear how to formalise the search requirements when developing a search system. We adapt a faceted task model for the purpose of characterising the tasks of a target user group. We first identify which task facets council members use to describe their tasks, then characterise council member tasks based on those facets. Finally, we discuss the design implications of these tasks for the development of a search engine.

Based on two studies at the same municipality we identified a set of task facets and used these to characterise the tasks of council members. By coding how council members describe their tasks we identified five task facets: the task objective, topic aspect, information source, retrieval unit, and task specificity. We then performed a third study at a second municipality where we found our results were consistent.

We then discuss design implications of these tasks because the task model has implications for 1) how information should be modelled, and 2) how information can be presented in context, and it provides implicit suggestions for 3) how users want to interact with information.

Our work is a step towards better understanding the search requirements of target user groups within an organisation. A task model enables organisations developing search systems to better prioritise where they should invest in new technology.
