---
title: "Reconstructing the decision-making processes of a city council based on references between documents"
collection: publications
category: pizza
permalink: /publication/2024-dgo
excerpt: 'High-precision approach to reconstruction decision histories of city council decisions, based on references made in metadata and the text of documents.'
date: 2024-02-17
venue: 'DGO'
paperurl: '/files/2024-dgo.pdf'
citation: 'Schoegje, Thomas, et al. "Reconstructing the decision-making processes of a city council based on references between documents." Proceedings of the 25th Annual International Conference on Digital Government Research. 2024.'
---

Council members and policy workers need to understand (longterm) processes that lead to decisions. Gaining such an overview
of a topic through a search engine can be challenging however,
as searching a complex topic can result in an overwhelming number of documents and does not show how these documents are
interrelated.
This study investigates how to create an overview of a decisionmaking process, which may be integrated into a search engine.
Interviews show that policy workers consider documents relevant
to the overview when the document and proposal were both created
in response to the same council decision document. We identify
such provenance based on the co-citation of documents and textual
references between documents. In an exploratory user study, policy
workers are tasked to understand the development of policy proposals based on provided timelines. Their relevance assessments show
that our approach nearly exclusively finds relevant documents (a
precision of 0.97).
Whereas the proposed approach identifies 91% of references
made in documents, it only finds an exact target document in 39%
of the total references. A further 52% of references finds a subset of
documents including the target. A human in the loop can aid in finding the exact documents, and potentially add documents based on
their domain expertise. The proposed approach creates an overview
of a city council’s decision-making process on a given topic with
high precision, and might apply to other domains oriented around
a decision-making process.
